# CNN_Autoencoders_for_Galaxy_Image_Translation

## Introduction 
Most important step in the data processing and analysis is the preprocessing step on which the results depend. Same is for the analysis of astronomy images. The images need to clean, noise to be removed and intensity should be enhanced before passing it to the model. This is simply because the processing will be more accurate and better if our dataset is cleaned and structured properly.The galaxy images have primary three features. The first one is the colour because it indicates age of the stars in the galaxy. Second is the ellipticity of the galaxy which is determined by fitting an ellipse to its profile and then using the ratio of semi-major to semi-minor axes to characterize the shape. Third, is the luminosity profile of the galaxy which is nothing but a measure of how the brightness of a galaxy varies as a function of the radius from its center. Neural networks can be used here to extract the features from the images and subsequently, be used as classifiers or generators. 

With time, deep convolutional autoencoder (DCAE) and Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) have been proved of significant use as image generators. The main purpose of these semi-supervised and unsupervised algorithms is to extract useful features from input data, to detect and remove input redundancies, and to preserve the essential aspects of the data in discriminative form. Deep hierarchies can be build in context of neural networks which helps in extraction of different types of features. Most of the DCAEs are based on encoder-decoder approach. The input is reduced to a lower-dimensional space (encoder) till the bottleneck, and is further expanded to reproduce the initial data (decoder). 
